#LyX 1.4.4 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 245
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quote
\begin_inset Note Comment
status open

\begin_layout Quote
As every man goes through life he fills in a number of forms for the record,
 each containing a number of questions...
 There are thus hundreds of little threads radiating from every man, millions
 of threads in all.
 If these threads were suddenly to become visible, the whole sky would look
 like a spider's web, and if they materialized as rubber bands, buses; trams
 and even people would all lose the ability to move, and the wind would
 be unable to carry torn-up newspapers or autumn leaves along the streets
 of the city.
 They are not visible, they are not material, but every man is constantly
 aware of their existence....
 Each man, permanently aware of his own invisible threads, naturally develops
 a respect for the people who manipulate the threads.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quote
--Alexander Solzhenitsyn, Cancer Ward, 1968.
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Privacy and security are important concerns as computers increase in power
 and the Internet continues to grow 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{cra99,tur03}

\end_inset

.
 Everyday activities dealing with sensitive data are moving onto to the
 Internet, such as credit card transactions, doctors accessing medical records,
 and online banking.
 As a result, more data is stored on machines that are connected to the
 Internet, directly or indirectly, then ever before.
 Sadly, there are many all-too-common examples in the newspapers of privacy
 compromising activities such as phishing, data theft, and identity theft.
 New techniques are needed to deal with the many threats to privacy.
 In addition to the misuse of data, there can be other consequences of privacy
 violations, such as serious legal penalties for violation of HIPAA laws
 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{hippa}

\end_inset

, which mandate strict privacy requirements among health-care professionals.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Despite these many privacy concerns, there is also a conflicting desire
 to perform useful computations with such data.
 Data is not useful unless it can be accessed and manipulated.
 Sometimes various parties would like to collaborate on research involving
 sensitive data.
 For example, genetic data is the subject of much current research, but
 it is considered private personal information.
 Researchers with access to different patients' data may want to combine
 their information resources in the search for new cures for diseases, yet
 not reveal the actual sensitive information to the collaborating parties.
 Competing businesses may want to jointly perform market research for mutual
 benefit, without exposing their sensitive business data.
 The challenge is how to balance these competing concerns, making data available
 for desirable uses while preserving as much privacy as possible.
 If this balance can be achieved, new uses of data may become possible which
 would be otherwise impossible without strong privacy guarantees.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There have been several methods developed so far for preserving personal
 privacy while permitting use of data.
 The most simple method, conceptually, is to replace identifying information,
 such as the name, social security number, and other sensitive data with
 random unique identifiers, and then using the transformed data for computation.
 If it is necessary to correlate the outputs of the computation with individuals
, the data owner can do this, but other parties presumably can not.
 However, this method has been shown to be vulnerable to attacks that correlate
 the transformed data with information available from external sources to
 reconstruct the obfuscated data, thereby breaking the privacy protection
 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Malin04}

\end_inset

.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Another method of preserving privacy is known as 
\emph on
secure multiparty computation
\emph default
.
 This is a technique of performing computations on inputs supplied by multiple
 parties while provably maintaining privacy guarantees.
 If the computation is a function evaluation, then it is called 
\emph on
secure function evaluation
\emph default
, or SFE.

\emph on
 
\emph default
This
\emph on
 
\emph default
is a technique which can address many of the privacy concerns facing the
 modern age.
 The inputs to the function are partitioned among more than one party, and
 the function is computed collaboratively while preserving the privacy of
 each participant's individual inputs.
 In this case, privacy is considered preserved if no party learns any informatio
n that would affect their estimate of the probability distribution of another
 party's inputs, except for that which can be calculated by the parties'
 own inputs and the output of the joint function.
\begin_inset Note Comment
status open

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Note Greyedout
status open

\begin_layout Standard
Needs clarification
\end_layout

\end_inset

 In other words, the entropy gain of each party is equivalent to the entropy
 gain in an idealized protocol where a trusted third party collects all
 the inputs, evaluates the function, and transmits only the output to each
 party.
 Depending on the protocol, the guarantees for some parties may be based
 on typical assumptions of computational hardness, while the guarantees
 for other parties may be information theoretic.
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Although SFE has provable privacy guarantees, its implementation tends to
 be very expensive for practical use in terms of time and space.
 The space expense manifests itself in the large consumption of network
 bandwidth used in the protocols, and the time expense comes from repeated
 use of expensive cryptographic primitives, such as modular exponentiation.
 These expenses explain why SFE has not been used very much outside of the
 academic literature, despite the fact that it was formally introduced many
 years ago, in the early 1980s 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Y82}

\end_inset

.
 There has been research in recent years to make SFE more practical.
 This research falls into two categories: general and function specific.
 General protocols allow any function expressed as a circuit computation
 to be evaluated securely.
 The Fairplay system 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Fairplay}

\end_inset

 is a straightforward implementation of the Yao protocol 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Yao86}

\end_inset

, presented in section 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sub:Garbled-Circuit-Method}

\end_inset

, along with a supporting compiler that allows secure functions to be written
 in a more familiar functional programming notation.
 Kruger 
\emph on
et al.

\emph default
 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{kruger06}

\end_inset

 showed how 
\emph on
Ordered Binary Decision Diagrams
\emph default
 (OBDD) can be used to produce a more efficient protocol for secure evaluation
 for certain functions.
 Function specific protocol design has produced secure protocols which perform
 dramatically better than general protocols.
 Privacy preserving data mining (PPDM) has been a major application driving
 such research 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{verykios04stateart}

\end_inset

.
 Other protocols have been developed for various classes of functions such
 as polynomial evaluation 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{naor99otope}

\end_inset

 and string alignment algorithms such as edit distance 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{kruger07}

\end_inset

.
 Also, the amount of time required for the computations has benefited greatly
 from Moore's law.
 I have shown that in some simple cases, the computation requirements of
 the most general protocols can be adequate for practical use when performed
 on today's fastest CPUs 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{kruger06}

\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I propose to research ways to improve the efficiency and practicality of
 privacy preserving protocols.
 My past work has investigated finding efficient protocols for specific
 classes of functions, in particular, one study analyzes several designs
 of a 
\begin_inset Formula $k$
\end_inset

-means clustering algorithm 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{kruger05}

\end_inset

, and another discusses ways to design efficient protocols for many kinds
 of dynamic programming problems 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{kruger07}

\end_inset

.
 I have also investigated the use of alternate circuit representations using
 OBDDs to improve the performance of general purpose protocols and showed
 that they can be beneficial for certain functions 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{kruger06}

\end_inset

.
 These works are discussed in section 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \ref{sec:Techniques}

\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I am proposing to continue the work suggested by these initial studies,
 and further investigate ways to improve the performance and simplify the
 task of constructing efficient privacy preserving protocols, culminating
 in an optimizing protocol compiler.
 In addition to the research results, I also plan to release the SFE compiler
 and supporting tools as a stimulus to expand future research in secure
 function evaluation.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Specifically, I propose that my work will create the following contributions:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\emph on
Protocols for other alternative representation of circuits
\emph default
.
 Although my work with OBDDs showed improved performance with certain functions,
 OBDDs exhibit exponential blowup in many circuits of practical interest
 such as multiplication.
 There have been many generalizations of OBDDs intended to address these
 problems.
 An arithmetic-focused approach has been to extend OBDDs from the Boolean
 domain to the numeric domain, such as in 
\emph on
binary moment diagrams 
\emph default

\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{bryant94verification}

\end_inset

 and 
\emph on
hybrid decision
\emph default
 
\emph on
diagrams
\emph default
 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{clarke95hybrid}

\end_inset

.

\emph on
 
\emph default
Another approach, 
\emph on
binary expression diagrams
\emph default
 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{BoolExprDiagram}

\end_inset

, have composed BDD-style decision nodes with Boolean gates in the same
 circuit.
 I will research whether these alternate circuit representations can yield
 efficient protocols for general purpose secure function evaluation.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\emph on
Protocols for evaluating functions with controlled leakage of information
\emph default
.
 The traditional definition of secure function evaluation allows the parties
 to learn their designated outputs and no additional information.
 In ordinary (non-secure) computation, the parties learn all information.
 Intuitively, these are the extreme ends of a continuum of information learned.
 Since the overhead of privacy protection is substantial, the question I
 will research is how can secure protocols be designed at intermediate points
 in the continuum, where some but not all privacy is guaranteed.
 For example, if a Boolean circuit can be partitioned into 
\emph on
sensitive
\emph default
 and 
\emph on
non-sensitive
\emph default
 gates, what quantity of performance gain can be achieved by allowing the
 non-sensitive information to be revealed?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\emph on
A compiler for creating efficient secure evaluation protocols.

\emph default
 Fairplay 
\begin_inset LatexCommand \cite{Fairplay}

\end_inset

 is the first attempt to create a general purpose secure protocol compiler.
 It works in a straightforward way, by converting a functional language
 into a Boolean circuit and executing a generic protocol to evaluate it.
 However, this straightforward approach is not efficient enough for practical
 use in all but the simplest circuits.
 I plan to integrate the various techniques I have researched to create
 the first optimizing protocol compiler for secure function evaluation.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\emph on
Examples showing that SFE can be useful in other aspects of security where
 it has not previously been used
\emph default
.
 Specifically, I will show how SFE can be used to implement a more secure
 authentication protocol in SSH.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
