\begin{abstract}
Over the years, SSH has evolved from a secure alternative to telnet
into a robust and extensible layered protocol that can serve as a
secure transport layer for applications that need strong cryptographic
security. Unfortunately, interactive password-based authentication
remains one of the most popular choices for common SSH deployments,
leaving opportunity for an active malicious adversary to either learn
the client's password, or impersonate the server or
client. \emph{Secure Password and Key Authentication} (SPAKA)
protocols provide mutual authentication, and are designed to be
resilient to these attacks. However, current SPAKA protocols impose
specific requirements on the environments in which they are used,
making them impractical for many common, widespread applications such
as SSH. In this paper, we present a \emph{practical} protocol that
provides equivalent guarantees to existing SPAKA protocols, but is
suitable as a ``drop-in'' authentication module in existing
deployments. To accomplish this, we use secure function evaluation
(SFE) to compare the password credentials between the client and
server, embedding computation of the hash function into the comparison
protocol. We have implemented an SSH client and server that use this
authentication protocol, and released an open-source version of the
software that is freely available for download.
\end{abstract}
