#LyX 1.6.6.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 345
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\author "" 
\author "" 
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section
Ordered Binary Decision Diagrams
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The ease and transparency of information flow on the Internet has heightened
 concerns of personal privacy [28, 108].
 Various Internet activities, such as Web surfing, email, and other services
 leak sensitive information.
 As a result, there has been interest in developing technologies [27, 47,
 103] and protocols to address these concerns.
 In particular, privacy-preserving protocols [38, 40, 74, 79] that allow
 multiple parties to perform joint computations without revealing their
 private inputs have been the subject of much interest.
 Our focus in this paper is on two party privacy-preserving protocols.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
One of the fundamental cryptographic primitives for designing privacy-preserving
 protocols is secure function evaluation (SFE).
 A protocol for SFE enables two parties 
\begin_inset Formula $A$
\end_inset

 and 
\begin_inset Formula $B$
\end_inset

 with inputs 
\begin_inset Formula $x$
\end_inset

 and 
\begin_inset Formula $y$
\end_inset

 respectively to jointly compute a function 
\begin_inset Formula $f(x,y)$
\end_inset

 while preserving the privacy of the two parties (i.e., at the end of the
 protocol, party 
\begin_inset Formula $A$
\end_inset

 only knows its input 
\begin_inset Formula $x$
\end_inset

 and the value of the function 
\begin_inset Formula $f(x,y)$
\end_inset

, and similarly for 
\begin_inset Formula $B$
\end_inset

).
 Yao showed that for a polynomial-time computable function 
\begin_inset Formula $f$
\end_inset

, there exists a SFE protocol that executes in polynomial time [51, ?] (details
 about this protocol can be found in Goldreich’s book [49, Chapter 7]).
 Yao’s classic solution for SFE has been used to design privacy-preserving
 protocols for various applications [8].
 The importance of Yao’s protocol spurred researchers to design a compiler
 that takes a description of the function f and emits code corresponding
 to Yao’s protocol for secure evaluation of f.
 Such compilers, for example Fairplay [84], enable wider applicability of
 SFE.
 MacKenzie et al.
 [80] implemented a compiler [46] for generating secure two-party protocols
 for a restricted but important class of functions, which is particularly
 suited for applications where the secret key is protected using threshold
 cryptography.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
For most applications, the classic protocol for SFE is quite expensive,
 which has led researchers to develop more efficient privacy-preserving
 protocols for specific problems [38, 40, 74, 79].
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In the classic SFE protocol, the function f is represented as circuit comprised
 of gates.
 Fairplay uses this circuit representation of f.
 Ordered Binary Decision Diagrams (OBDDS) are a graph-based representation
 of Boolean functions that have been used in a variety of applications in
 computer-aided design, including symbolic model checking (a technique for
 verifying designs), verification of combinational logic, and verification
 of finite-state concurrent systems [23, 26].
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
OBDDs can be readily extended to represent functions with arbitrary domains
 and ranges.
 Given an OBDD representation of the function to be jointly computed by
 the two parties, Yao’s protocol can be directly used by first converting
 the OBDD into a circuit.
 Converting an OBDD to a circuit, however, incurs a blow-up in the number
 of gates required.
 To empirically measure this blowup, we implemented a compiler that takes
 an OBDD and converts it into a circuit description that can be used in
 Fairplay.
 On the average, this conversion from OBDD to circuit resulted in a increase
 in size by a factor of 10.
 Details of this experiment can be found in Section 3.4.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In this thesis, we present a SFE algorithm that directly uses an OBDD representa
tion of the function f that the two parties want to jointly compute.
 The advantage of using an OBDD representation over the gate-representation
 is that OBDDs are more succinct for certain widely used classes of functions
 than the gate representation.
 For example, among other functions, our results show the OBDD representation
 is more efficient than the gate representation for 8-bit AND, 8-bit addition,
 and the millionaire’s and billionaire’s problems [?].
 As a result, our protocol has reduced bandwidth consumption over the classic
 Yao protocol implemented in Fairplay.
 Because processor speeds have increased at a more rapid pace than bandwidth
 availability over the past years, network bandwidth is likely to be the
 bottleneck for a number of applications.
 In particular, our protocols are especially useful for applications operating
 over networks with limited bandwidth, such as wireless and sensor networks.
 Furthermore, we have empirically confirmed this statement by implementing
 our protocol and comparing it with Fairplay.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This paper makes the following contributions: 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
• We present a SFE protocol that uses the OBDD representation of the function
 to be jointly computed by two parties.
 Our new protocol along with the correctness proof is provided in Section
 3.3.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
• Experimental results based upon a prototype implementation of our protocol
 demonstrate that for certain functions, our implementation results in a
 smaller encrypted circuit than Fairplay.
 For example, for the classic millionaire’s problem, our implementation
 reduces the bandwidth by approximately 
\begin_inset Formula $45\%$
\end_inset

 over Fairplay.
 Our implementation and experimental results are described in Section 3.4.
 In summary, this paper presents a new SFE protocol that uses the OBDD represent
ation.
 The OBDD representation is more efficient for several practical functions
 of interest.
 For other functions, the circuit description (and therefore FairPlay) will
 be more efficient.
 This paper presents a generic alternative to Boolean circuits that can
 be used when appropriate.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Ordered Binary Decision Diagrams (OBDDs)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Ordered binary decision diagrams (OBDDs) are a canonical representation
 for Boolean formulas [23].
 They are often substantially more compact than traditional normal forms,
 such as conjunctive normal form (CNF) and disjunctive normal form (DNF),
 and they can be manipulated efficiently.
 Therefore, they are widely used for a variety of applications in computer-aided
 design, including symbolic model checking, verification of combinational
 logic, and verification of finite state concurrent systems [26].
 A detailed discussion of OBDDs can be found in Bryant’s seminal article
 [23].
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Given a Boolean function f(x1, x2, · · · , xn) of n variables x1, · · ·
 , xn and a total ordering on the n variables, the OBDD for f, denoted by
 OBDD(f), is a rooted, directed acyclic graph (DAG) with two types of vertices:
 terminal and nonterminal vertices.
 OBDD(f) also has the following components:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
• Each vertex v has a level, denoted by level (v), between 0 and n.
 There is a distinguished vertex called root whose level is 0.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
• Each nonterminal vertex v is labeled by a variable var(v) 2 {x1, · · ·
 , xn} and has two successors, low(v) and high(v).
 Each terminal vertex is labeled with either 0 or 1.
 There are only two terminal vertices in an OBDD.
 Moreover, the labeling of vertices respects the total ordering < on the
 variables, i.e., if u has a nonterminal successor v, then var(u) < var(v).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Given an assignment A = <x1 b1, · · · , xn bn> to the variables x1, · ·
 · , xn the value of the Boolean function f(b1, · · · , bn) can be found
 by starting at the root and following the path where the edges on the path
 are labeled with b1, · · · , bn.
 OBDDs can also be used to represent functions with finite range and domain.
 Let g be a function of n Boolean variables with output that can be encoded
 by k Boolean variables.
 The function g can be represented as an array of k OBDDs where the i-th
 OBDD represents the Boolean function corresponding to the i-th output bit
 of g.
 For the rest of the paper we will assume that the function f is a Boolean
 function, but our protocols can be easily extended for the case of functions
 with a finite range.
 We will illustrate OBDDs with an example.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Example 4.1 Figure 4.1 shows the OBDD for the function f(x1, x2, x3, x4) =
 (x1 = x2) ^ (x3 = x4) of four variables x1, x2, x3, x4 with the total ordering
 x1 < x2 < x3 < x4.1 Notice that the ordering of the labels on the vertices
 on any path from the root to the terminals of the OBDD corresponds to the
 total ordering of the Boolean variables.
 Consider the assignment hx1 1, x2 1, x3 0, x4 0i.
 In the OBDD shown in Figure 4.1, if we start at the root and follow the
 edges corresponding to the assignment, we end up at the terminal vertex
 labeled with 1.
 Therefore, the value of f(1, 1, 0, 0) is 1.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
One of the advantages of OBDDs is that they can be manipulated efficiently,
 i.e., given OBDDs for f and g, OBDDs for f ^ g, f _ g, and ¬f can be computed
 efficiently.
 We now describe an operation called restriction, which is used in our protocol.
 Given a n variable Boolean function f(x1, x2, · · · , xn) and a Boolean
 value b, f |xi b is a Boolean function of n − 1 variables 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Foot
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
OBDDs are sensitive to variable ordering, e.g., with the ordering x1 < x3
 < x2 < x4 the OBDD for (x1 = x2) ^ (x3 = x4) has 11 nodes.
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
x1, · · · , xi−1, xi+1, · · · , xn defined as follows: f |xi b (x1, · ·
 · , xi−1, xi+1, · · · , xn) is equal to f(x1, · · · , xi−1, b, xi+1, ·
 · · , xn).
 Essentially f |xi b is the function obtained by substituting the value
 b for the variable xi in the function f.
 Given the OBDD for f, the OBDD for f |xi b can be efficiently computed
 [23, Section 4].
 The restriction operation can be extended to multiple variables in a straightfo
rward manner, e.g., f |xi b,xj b0 can be computed as (f |xi b) |xj b0 .
 We explain the algorithm using our example; the reader is referred to [23]
 for details.
 Consider the function f(x1, x2, x3, x4) described in example 4.1.
 The OBDD corresponding to f |x1 1,x3 0 is shown in Figure 4.2.
 Since x1 1, the root of OBDD (f |x1 1,x3 0) is the left vertex labeled
 with x2.
 Consider the two vertices v1 and v2 labeled with x2.
 If v1 has an edge that points to the vertex labeled with x3, then that
 edge is changed to point to the right vertex labeled with x4 (because this
 is the vertex reached if x3 is equal to 1).
 Notice that in the reduced OBDD shown in Figure 4.2 the vertices that are
 labeled with x1 and x3 have been eliminated.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Two Party SFE with OBDDs
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
For our protocols, we require a symmetric encryption scheme with two easily
 attained special properties [76], which are (1) elusive range: an encryption
 under one key is in the range of an encryption with a different key with
 negligible probability, and (2) efficiently verifiable range: given a key,
 a user can efficiently verify that a ciphertext is in the range of that
 key.
 These properties are required so that the receiver of the garbled OBDD
 can correctly decrypt nodes in the OBDD.
 The formal definition of these properties by Lindell and Pinkas [76] is
 provided with the proofs.
 An example of a symmetric key encryption scheme that fulfills these properties
 is Ek(m) = (r , fk(r) mk 0n), where f : {0, 1}n × {0, 1}n ! {0, 1}2n is
 a pseudo-random function and r R {0, 1}n is a n-bit random sequence.
 Unless stated otherwise, all symmetric key encryption schemes in this paper,
 besides being semantically secure [49, Chapter 5], also require these two
 properties.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Our protocol also uses a 1-out-of-2 oblivious transfer (denoted OT2 1 )
 protocol.
 A 1-out-of-k oblivious transfer OTk 1 is a protocol that lets Bob obtain
 one of k secrets held by Alice, without Alice learning which secret Bob
 obtains.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We now give the protocol for securely computing an OBDD between two parties
 where each party holds a part of the input.
 Assume f is a Boolean function f(x1, x2, · · · , xn) of n Boolean variables
 x1, x2, · · · , xn.
 Let OBDD(f) denote the OBDD for f with the ordering x1 < x2 < · · · < xn.
 We describe the protocol in stages.
 Protocol 1 described in Section 4.3.1 assumes that Alice holds inputs correspondi
ng to the first k variables, and Bob has the inputs corresponding to last
 n−k variables xk+1, .
 .
 .
 , xn.
 Protocol 2 described in Section 3.3.2 allows arbitrary sharing of inputs,
 and it uses the restriction operation on OBDDs described earlier to reduce
 the bandwidth requirement of the protocol.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Protocol 1
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
